apps/rtos/freertos/basic_freertos/readme.md, before:

[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# FreeRTOS basic

This example application blinks an LED to show the FreeRTOS threads that are running and to indicate status.

## Description

This demonstration creates three tasks and a queue. Task1 sends message to Task2 and Task3 to unblock and toggle an LED. Task1 priority is low compared to Task2 and Task3 which shares same priority.

- **Task1**: This task sends the data (i.e. delay, the amount of time for which the task need blocked) to Task2 and Task3 using a queue, then Task1 blocks itself for 200ms to allow other tasks to schedule and run
- **Task2**: This task blocks until it receives the data from queue, if the Task2 receives the expected delay (i.e. 1000ms) from Task1 then toggles the LED and blocks itself for the amount of delay received
- **Task3**: This task blocks until it receives the data from queue, if the Task3 receives the expected delay (i.e. 100ms) from Task1 then toggles the LED and blocks itself for the amount of delay received

## Downloading and building the application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_sam_9x60) and then click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file.
This content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is **apps/rtos/freertos/basic_freertos/firmware** .

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its IDE.

| Project Name      | Description                                    |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| sam_9x60_ek.X | MPLABX project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
| sam_9x60_ek_iar.IAR | IAR project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

## Setting up the hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

| Project Name| Board|
|:---------|:---------:|
| sam_9x60_ek.X <br> sam_9x60_ek_iar.IAR | [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

### Setting up [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)

#### Addtional hardware required

- SD Card with FAT32 file system

#### Setting up the SD Card

- Download harmony MPU bootstrap loader from this [location](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/at91bootstrap/blob/sam9x60ek/boot.bin)
- Copy the downloaded boot loader binary( boot.bin) onto the SD card

#### Setting up the board

- SDMMC slot used for bootloading the application is SDMMC0 (J4)
- Connect the USB port J22 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to enable debug com port)
- Connect the USB port J7 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to power the board)
- *NOTE - Reset push button is labelled as SW3*

## Running the Application

1. Build the application using its IDE
2. Copy the output binary (named 'harmony.bin') onto the SD Card (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section above for setting up the SD card)
3. Insert the SD card into SDMMC slot on the board (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section for the correct SDMMC slot)
4. Reset the board to run the application
5. The LED indicates the success or failure.
    - The LED toggles on success i.e. each time when the Task2 or Task3 receives a valid message

Refer to the following table for LED name:

| Board | LED Name |
| ----- | -------- |
|  [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)  | RGB_LED(Green) |
|||

Commit message:

[DOC] Add bootstrap documentation
MH3-43807

apps/rtos/freertos/basic_freertos/readme.md, after:

[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# FreeRTOS basic

This example application blinks an LED to show the FreeRTOS threads that are running and to indicate status.

## Description

This demonstration creates three tasks and a queue. Task1 sends message to Task2 and Task3 to unblock and toggle an LED. Task1 priority is low compared to Task2 and Task3 which shares same priority.

- **Task1**: This task sends the data (i.e. delay, the amount of time for which the task need blocked) to Task2 and Task3 using a queue, then Task1 blocks itself for 200ms to allow other tasks to schedule and run
- **Task2**: This task blocks until it receives the data from queue, if the Task2 receives the expected delay (i.e. 1000ms) from Task1 then toggles the LED and blocks itself for the amount of delay received
- **Task3**: This task blocks until it receives the data from queue, if the Task3 receives the expected delay (i.e. 100ms) from Task1 then toggles the LED and blocks itself for the amount of delay received

## Downloading and building the application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_sam_9x60) and then click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file.
This content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is **apps/rtos/freertos/basic_freertos/firmware** .

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its IDE.

| Project Name      | Description                                    |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| sam_9x60_ek.X | MPLABX project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
| sam_9x60_ek_iar.IAR | IAR project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

## Setting up AT91Bootstrap loader

To load the application binary onto the target device, we need to use at91bootstrap loader. Refer to the [at91bootstrap loader documentation](../../../docs/readme_bootstrap.md) for details on how to configure, build and run bootstrap loader project and use it to bootstrap the application binaries.

## Setting up the hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

| Project Name| Board|
|:---------|:---------:|
| sam_9x60_ek.X <br> sam_9x60_ek_iar.IAR | [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

### Setting up [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)

#### Addtional hardware required

- SD Card with FAT32 file system

#### Setting up the SD Card

- Download harmony MPU bootstrap loader from this [location](firmware/at91bootstrap_sam_9x60_ek.X/binaries/boot.bin)
- Copy the downloaded boot loader binary( boot.bin) onto the SD card

#### Setting up the board

- SDMMC slot used for bootloading the application is SDMMC0 (J4)
- Connect the USB port J22 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to enable debug com port)
- Connect the USB port J7 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to power the board)
- *NOTE - Reset push button is labelled as SW3*

## Running the Application

1. Build the application using its IDE
2. Copy the output binary (named 'harmony.bin') onto the SD Card (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section above for setting up the SD card)
3. Insert the SD card into SDMMC slot on the board (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section for the correct SDMMC slot)
4. Reset the board to run the application
5. The LED indicates the success or failure.
    - The LED toggles on success i.e. each time when the Task2 or Task3 receives a valid message

Refer to the following table for LED name:

| Board | LED Name |
| ----- | -------- |
|  [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)  | RGB_LED(Green) |
|||
