apps/fs/sdmmc_fat/readme.md, before:

[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# FAT filesystem using SDMMC Media

This application shows an example of using the MPLAB Harmony File System to access and modify the contents of a SD card using the SDMMC driver.

## Description

### File System Operations on the SD Card:

- Application opens a file named **FILE_TOO_LONG_NAME_EXAMPLE_123.JPG** in the root directory of the SD card and reads its content into memory
  - The image file could be any arbitrary JPEG (image) file chosen by the user and then renamed to **FILE_TOO_LONG_NAME_EXAMPLE_123.JPG**
- Application creates directory named **Dir1** in the root directory
- Application creates a new file named **FILE_TOO_LONG_NAME_EXAMPLE_123.JPG** inside **Dir1**
- Application copies the content from step 1 into this newly created file

The reason for choosing a JPEG file for test purposes is that the duplicate file, **Dir1/FILE_TOO_LONG_NAME_EXAMPLE_123.JPG** created by the demonstration could be easily verified for correctness.If the new file inside **Dir1** opens for viewing on the computer and matches to original image, the test is deemed to have passed. Otherwise, if the file does not open (i.e., is corrupted), the test will be considered to have failed.

### Note

*Since the application creates a directory named Dir1, it is important that the a folder with the same name does not exist on the SD card. If a directory named Dir1 is already present on the SD card, the application will fail.*

## Downloading and building the application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_sam_9x60) and then click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file.
This content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is **apps/fs/sdmmc_fat/firmware** .

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its IDE.

| Project Name      | Description                                    |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| sam_9x60_ek.X | MPLABX project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X | MPLABX project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos_iar.IAR | IAR project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
| sam_9x60_ek_iar.IAR | IAR project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

## Setting up the hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

| Project Name| Board|
|:---------|:---------:|
| sam_9x60_ek.X <br> sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X <br> sam_9x60_ek_freertos_iar.IAR <br> sam_9x60_ek_iar.IAR | [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

### Setting up [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)

#### Addtional hardware required

- SD Card with FAT32 file system

#### Setting up the SD Card

- Download harmony MPU bootstrap loader from this [location](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/at91bootstrap/blob/sam9x60ek/boot.bin)
- Copy the downloaded boot loader binary( boot.bin) onto the SD card

#### Setting up the board

- SDMMC slot used for bootloading the application is SDMMC0 (J4)
- Connect the USB port J22 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to enable debug com port)
- Connect the USB port J7 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to power the board)
- *NOTE - Reset push button is labelled as SW3*

## Running the Application

1. Build the application using its IDE
2. Copy the output binary (named 'harmony.bin') onto the SD Card (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section above for setting up the SD card)
3. Insert the SD card into SDMMC slot on the board (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section for the correct SDMMC slot)
4. Reset the board to run the application
5. The LED is turned ON if there was no error during creating the directory and copying the file into it

Refer to the following table for LED name:

| Board | LED Name |
| ----- | -------- |
|  [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)  | RGB_LED(Green) |
|||

Commit message:

[DOC] Add bootstrap documentation
MH3-43807

apps/fs/sdmmc_fat/readme.md, after:

[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# FAT filesystem using SDMMC Media

This application shows an example of using the MPLAB Harmony File System to access and modify the contents of a SD card using the SDMMC driver.

## Description

### File System Operations on the SD Card:

- Application opens a file named **FILE_TOO_LONG_NAME_EXAMPLE_123.JPG** in the root directory of the SD card and reads its content into memory
  - The image file could be any arbitrary JPEG (image) file chosen by the user and then renamed to **FILE_TOO_LONG_NAME_EXAMPLE_123.JPG**
- Application creates directory named **Dir1** in the root directory
- Application creates a new file named **FILE_TOO_LONG_NAME_EXAMPLE_123.JPG** inside **Dir1**
- Application copies the content from step 1 into this newly created file

The reason for choosing a JPEG file for test purposes is that the duplicate file, **Dir1/FILE_TOO_LONG_NAME_EXAMPLE_123.JPG** created by the demonstration could be easily verified for correctness.If the new file inside **Dir1** opens for viewing on the computer and matches to original image, the test is deemed to have passed. Otherwise, if the file does not open (i.e., is corrupted), the test will be considered to have failed.

### Note

*Since the application creates a directory named Dir1, it is important that the a folder with the same name does not exist on the SD card. If a directory named Dir1 is already present on the SD card, the application will fail.*

## Downloading and building the application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_sam_9x60) and then click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file.
This content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is **apps/fs/sdmmc_fat/firmware** .

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its IDE.

| Project Name      | Description                                    |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| sam_9x60_ek.X | MPLABX project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X | MPLABX project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos_iar.IAR | IAR project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
| sam_9x60_ek_iar.IAR | IAR project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

## Setting up AT91Bootstrap loader

To load the application binary onto the target device, we need to use at91bootstrap loader. Refer to the [at91bootstrap loader documentation](../../docs/readme_bootstrap.md) for details on how to configure, build and run bootstrap loader project and use it to bootstrap the application binaries.

## Setting up the hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

| Project Name| Board|
|:---------|:---------:|
| sam_9x60_ek.X <br> sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X <br> sam_9x60_ek_freertos_iar.IAR <br> sam_9x60_ek_iar.IAR | [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

### Setting up [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)

#### Addtional hardware required

- SD Card with FAT32 file system

#### Setting up the SD Card

- Download harmony MPU bootstrap loader from this [location](firmware/at91bootstrap_sam_9x60_ek.X/binaries/boot.bin)
- Copy the downloaded boot loader binary( boot.bin) onto the SD card

#### Setting up the board

- SDMMC slot used for bootloading the application is SDMMC0 (J4)
- Connect the USB port J22 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to enable debug com port)
- Connect the USB port J7 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to power the board)
- *NOTE - Reset push button is labelled as SW3*

## Running the Application

1. Build the application using its IDE
2. Copy the output binary (named 'harmony.bin') onto the SD Card (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section above for setting up the SD card)
3. Insert the SD card into SDMMC slot on the board (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section for the correct SDMMC slot)
4. Reset the board to run the application
5. The LED is turned ON if there was no error during creating the directory and copying the file into it

Refer to the following table for LED name:

| Board | LED Name |
| ----- | -------- |
|  [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)  | RGB_LED(Green) |
|||
