apps/driver/spi/sync/spi_self_loopback_multi_client/readme.md, before:

[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# SPI Driver synchronous - Self loopback multi client

This example demonstrates how to use the SPI driver in synchronous mode to achieve self-loop back between multiple clients in RTOS environment.

## Description

- This example writes and reads back the same data (self loop back) for two different clients connected over the same SPI bus by using the multi client feature of a synchronous SPI driver

- The example also demonstrates how to setup two different client transfers at two different baud rates

- The example has three RTOS threads for the purpose:
  - **APP_CLIENT1_Tasks:**
    - This thread opens the SPI driver instance and performs a continuous loop back transfer
    - If the loop back is successful, the loop back is repeated every 100 ms
    - In case of an error, the thread closes the driver and suspends itself
  - **APP_CLIENT2_Tasks:**
    - This thread opens the SPI driver instance and performs a continuous loop back transfer
    - If the loop back is successful, the loop back is repeated every 100 ms
    - In case of an error, the thread closes the driver and suspends itself
  - **APP_MONITOR_Tasks:**
    - This thread checks the status of loop back done by the two client tasks and turns on the LED if the loop back transfer status reported by both the clients is successful

## Downloading and building the application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_sam_9x60) and then click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file.
This content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is **apps/driver/spi/sync/spi_self_loopback_multi_client/firmware** .

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its IDE.

| Project Name      | Description                                    |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X | MPLABX project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos_iar.IAR | IAR project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

## Setting up the hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

| Project Name| Board|
|:---------|:---------:|
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X <br> sam_9x60_ek_freertos_iar.IAR | [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

### Setting up [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)

#### Addtional hardware required

- SD Card with FAT32 file system

#### Setting up the SD Card

- Download harmony MPU bootstrap loader from this [location](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/at91bootstrap/blob/sam9x60ek/boot.bin)
- Copy the downloaded boot loader binary( boot.bin) onto the SD card

#### Setting up the board

- Use jumper wire to Connect "Pin 19 of J16 Connector" to "Pin 21 of J16 Connector"
  - FLEXCOM4 MOSI signal is mapped to PA12 that is routed to "Pin 19 of J16 Connector"
  - FLEXCOM4 MISO signal is mapped to PA11 that is routed to "Pin 21 of J16 Connector"
- SDMMC slot used for bootloading the application is SDMMC0 (J4)
- Connect the USB port J22 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to enable debug com port)
- Connect the USB port J7 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to power the board)
- *NOTE - Reset push button is labelled as SW3*

## Running the Application

1. Build the application using its IDE
2. Copy the output binary (named 'harmony.bin') onto the SD Card (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section above for setting up the SD card)
3. Insert the SD card into SDMMC slot on the board (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section for the correct SDMMC slot)
4. Reset the board to run the application
5. LED is turned ON on Success

Refer to the following table for LED name:

| Board | LED Name |
| ----- | -------- |
|  [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)  | RGB_LED(Green) |
|||

Commit message:

[DOC] Add bootstrap documentation
MH3-43807

apps/driver/spi/sync/spi_self_loopback_multi_client/readme.md, after:

[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# SPI Driver synchronous - Self loopback multi client

This example demonstrates how to use the SPI driver in synchronous mode to achieve self-loop back between multiple clients in RTOS environment.

## Description

- This example writes and reads back the same data (self loop back) for two different clients connected over the same SPI bus by using the multi client feature of a synchronous SPI driver

- The example also demonstrates how to setup two different client transfers at two different baud rates

- The example has three RTOS threads for the purpose:
  - **APP_CLIENT1_Tasks:**
    - This thread opens the SPI driver instance and performs a continuous loop back transfer
    - If the loop back is successful, the loop back is repeated every 100 ms
    - In case of an error, the thread closes the driver and suspends itself
  - **APP_CLIENT2_Tasks:**
    - This thread opens the SPI driver instance and performs a continuous loop back transfer
    - If the loop back is successful, the loop back is repeated every 100 ms
    - In case of an error, the thread closes the driver and suspends itself
  - **APP_MONITOR_Tasks:**
    - This thread checks the status of loop back done by the two client tasks and turns on the LED if the loop back transfer status reported by both the clients is successful

## Downloading and building the application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_sam_9x60) and then click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file.
This content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is **apps/driver/spi/sync/spi_self_loopback_multi_client/firmware** .

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its IDE.

| Project Name      | Description                                    |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X | MPLABX project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos_iar.IAR | IAR project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

## Setting up AT91Bootstrap loader

To load the application binary onto the target device, we need to use at91bootstrap loader. Refer to the [at91bootstrap loader documentation](../../../../docs/readme_bootstrap.md) for details on how to configure, build and run bootstrap loader project and use it to bootstrap the application binaries.

## Setting up the hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

| Project Name| Board|
|:---------|:---------:|
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X <br> sam_9x60_ek_freertos_iar.IAR | [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

### Setting up [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)

#### Addtional hardware required

- SD Card with FAT32 file system

#### Setting up the SD Card

- Download harmony MPU bootstrap loader from this [location](firmware/at91bootstrap_sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X/binaries/boot.bin)
- Copy the downloaded boot loader binary( boot.bin) onto the SD card

#### Setting up the board

- Use jumper wire to Connect "Pin 19 of J16 Connector" to "Pin 21 of J16 Connector"
  - FLEXCOM4 MOSI signal is mapped to PA12 that is routed to "Pin 19 of J16 Connector"
  - FLEXCOM4 MISO signal is mapped to PA11 that is routed to "Pin 21 of J16 Connector"
- SDMMC slot used for bootloading the application is SDMMC0 (J4)
- Connect the USB port J22 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to enable debug com port)
- Connect the USB port J7 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to power the board)
- *NOTE - Reset push button is labelled as SW3*

## Running the Application

1. Build the application using its IDE
2. Copy the output binary (named 'harmony.bin') onto the SD Card (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section above for setting up the SD card)
3. Insert the SD card into SDMMC slot on the board (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section for the correct SDMMC slot)
4. Reset the board to run the application
5. LED is turned ON on Success

Refer to the following table for LED name:

| Board | LED Name |
| ----- | -------- |
|  [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)  | RGB_LED(Green) |
|||
