apps/system/console_debug/sys_console_debug_uart_read_write/readme.md, before:

[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# Console Debug System Service using UART

This example application demonstrates the UART based console and debug system service.

## Description

- The application example first demonstrates the various debug system service macros
- It then demonstrates the console related APIs
- The application asks the user to enter a character on the console which is echoed back using the console system service read/write APIs

## Downloading and building the application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_sam_9x60) and then click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file.
This content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is **apps/system/console_debug/sys_console_debug_uart_read_write/firmware** .

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its IDE.

| Project Name      | Description                                    |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| sam_9x60_ek.X | MPLABX project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

## Setting up the hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

| Project Name| Board|
|:---------|:---------:|
| sam_9x60_ek.X | [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

### Setting up [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)

#### Addtional hardware required

- SD Card with FAT32 file system

#### Setting up the SD Card

- Download harmony MPU bootstrap loader from this [location](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/at91bootstrap/blob/sam9x60ek/boot.bin)
- Copy the downloaded boot loader binary( boot.bin) onto the SD card

#### Setting up the board

- SDMMC slot used for bootloading the application is SDMMC0 (J4)
- Connect the USB port J22 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to enable debug com port)
- Connect the USB port J7 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to power the board)
- *NOTE - Reset push button is labelled as SW3*

## Running the Application

1. Build the application using its IDE
2. Copy the output binary (named 'harmony.bin') onto the SD Card (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section above for setting up the SD card)
3. Insert the SD card into SDMMC slot on the board (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section for the correct SDMMC slot)
4. Open the Terminal application (Ex.:Tera term) on the computer.
5. Connect to the EDBG/Jlink Virtual COM port and configure the serial settings as follows:
    - Baud : 115200
    - Data : 8 Bits
    - Parity : None
    - Stop : 1 Bit
    - Flow Control : None
6. Reset the board to run the application
7. Observe the following output on the terminal

    ![output_1](images/output_sys_console_debug_uart_read_write_1.png)

    - First few prints demonstrate the output from the debug system service APIs
    - It then prints the free space available in the receive buffer
    - It then asks the user to enter 10 characters

8. After entering 10 characters, observe the following output on the terminal

    ![output_2](images/output_sys_console_debug_uart_read_write_2.png)

    - The output first prints the free space available in the receive buffer
    - Since 10 characters are pending to be read out from the receive buffer, the free space in the receive buffer is reduced by 10
    - After this, it prints the received characters on the terminal
    - Application then waits for the transmit buffer to become empty
    - Once empty, the application prints the free space available in the transmit buffer, which should be same as the size of the transmit buffer configured in MHC minus 1

9. After this, the demonstration asks the user to enter a character, and echoes it back on the terminal.

    ![output_3](images/output_sys_console_debug_uart_read_write_3.png)

    - LED toggles every-time the character is printed on the terminal

Refer to the following table for LED name:

| Board | LED Name |
| ----- | -------- |
|  [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)  | RGB_LED(Green) |
|||

Commit message:

[DOC] Add bootstrap documentation
MH3-43807

apps/system/console_debug/sys_console_debug_uart_read_write/readme.md, after:

[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# Console Debug System Service using UART

This example application demonstrates the UART based console and debug system service.

## Description

- The application example first demonstrates the various debug system service macros
- It then demonstrates the console related APIs
- The application asks the user to enter a character on the console which is echoed back using the console system service read/write APIs

## Downloading and building the application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_sam_9x60) and then click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file.
This content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is **apps/system/console_debug/sys_console_debug_uart_read_write/firmware** .

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its IDE.

| Project Name      | Description                                    |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| sam_9x60_ek.X | MPLABX project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

## Setting up AT91Bootstrap loader

To load the application binary onto the target device, we need to use at91bootstrap loader. Refer to the [at91bootstrap loader documentation](../../../docs/readme_bootstrap.md) for details on how to configure, build and run bootstrap loader project and use it to bootstrap the application binaries.

## Setting up the hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

| Project Name| Board|
|:---------|:---------:|
| sam_9x60_ek.X | [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

### Setting up [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)

#### Addtional hardware required

- SD Card with FAT32 file system

#### Setting up the SD Card

- Download harmony MPU bootstrap loader from this [location](firmware/at91bootstrap_sam_9x60_ek.X/binaries/boot.bin)
- Copy the downloaded boot loader binary( boot.bin) onto the SD card

#### Setting up the board

- SDMMC slot used for bootloading the application is SDMMC0 (J4)
- Connect the USB port J22 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to enable debug com port)
- Connect the USB port J7 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to power the board)
- *NOTE - Reset push button is labelled as SW3*

## Running the Application

1. Build the application using its IDE
2. Copy the output binary (named 'harmony.bin') onto the SD Card (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section above for setting up the SD card)
3. Insert the SD card into SDMMC slot on the board (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section for the correct SDMMC slot)
4. Open the Terminal application (Ex.:Tera term) on the computer.
5. Connect to the EDBG/Jlink Virtual COM port and configure the serial settings as follows:
    - Baud : 115200
    - Data : 8 Bits
    - Parity : None
    - Stop : 1 Bit
    - Flow Control : None
6. Reset the board to run the application
7. Observe the following output on the terminal

    ![output_1](images/output_sys_console_debug_uart_read_write_1.png)

    - First few prints demonstrate the output from the debug system service APIs
    - It then prints the free space available in the receive buffer
    - It then asks the user to enter 10 characters

8. After entering 10 characters, observe the following output on the terminal

    ![output_2](images/output_sys_console_debug_uart_read_write_2.png)

    - The output first prints the free space available in the receive buffer
    - Since 10 characters are pending to be read out from the receive buffer, the free space in the receive buffer is reduced by 10
    - After this, it prints the received characters on the terminal
    - Application then waits for the transmit buffer to become empty
    - Once empty, the application prints the free space available in the transmit buffer, which should be same as the size of the transmit buffer configured in MHC minus 1

9. After this, the demonstration asks the user to enter a character, and echoes it back on the terminal.

    ![output_3](images/output_sys_console_debug_uart_read_write_3.png)

    - LED toggles every-time the character is printed on the terminal

Refer to the following table for LED name:

| Board | LED Name |
| ----- | -------- |
|  [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)  | RGB_LED(Green) |
|||
