apps/driver/i2c/sync/i2c_eeprom/readme.md, before:

[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# I2C driver synchronous - I2C EEPROM

This example application shows how to use the I2C driver in synchronous mode to perform operations on the EEPROM.

## Description

This example uses the I2C driver in synchronous mode to communicate with the EEPROM to perform write and read operations in Bare-Metal environment. This application uses I2C driver to read and write data from an on-Board AT24MAC402 EEPROM device.

## Downloading and building the application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_sam_9x60) and then click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file.
This content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is **apps/driver/i2c/sync/i2c_eeprom/firmware** .

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its IDE.

| Project Name      | Description                                    |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X | MPLABX project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos_iar.IAR | IAR project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

## Setting up the hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

| Project Name| Board|
|:---------|:---------:|
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X <br> sam_9x60_ek_freertos_iar.IAR | [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

### Setting up [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)

#### Addtional hardware required

- SD Card with FAT32 file system

#### Setting up the SD Card

- Download harmony MPU bootstrap loader from this [location](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/at91bootstrap/blob/sam9x60ek/boot.bin)
- Copy the downloaded boot loader binary( boot.bin) onto the SD card

#### Setting up the board

- SDMMC slot used for bootloading the application is SDMMC0 (J4)
- Connect the USB port J22 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to enable debug com port)
- Connect the USB port J7 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to power the board)
- *NOTE - Reset push button is labelled as SW3*

## Running the Application

1. Build the application using its IDE
2. Copy the output binary (named 'harmony.bin') onto the SD Card (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section above for setting up the SD card)
3. Insert the SD card into SDMMC slot on the board (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section for the correct SDMMC slot)
4. Reset the board to run the application
5. The LED is turned ON when the value read from the EEPROM matched with the written value

Refer to the following table for LED name:

| Board | LED Name |
| ----- | -------- |
|  [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)  | RGB_LED(Green) |
|||

Commit message:

[DOC] Add bootstrap documentation
MH3-43807

apps/driver/i2c/sync/i2c_eeprom/readme.md, after:

[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# I2C driver synchronous - I2C EEPROM

This example application shows how to use the I2C driver in synchronous mode to perform operations on the EEPROM.

## Description

This example uses the I2C driver in synchronous mode to communicate with the EEPROM to perform write and read operations in Bare-Metal environment. This application uses I2C driver to read and write data from an on-Board AT24MAC402 EEPROM device.

## Downloading and building the application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_sam_9x60) and then click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file.
This content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is **apps/driver/i2c/sync/i2c_eeprom/firmware** .

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its IDE.

| Project Name      | Description                                    |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X | MPLABX project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos_iar.IAR | IAR project for [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

## Setting up AT91Bootstrap loader

To load the application binary onto the target device, we need to use at91bootstrap loader. Refer to the [at91bootstrap loader documentation](../../../../docs/readme_bootstrap.md) for details on how to configure, build and run bootstrap loader project and use it to bootstrap the application binaries.

## Setting up the hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

| Project Name| Board|
|:---------|:---------:|
| sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X <br> sam_9x60_ek_freertos_iar.IAR | [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126) |
|||

### Setting up [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)

#### Addtional hardware required

- SD Card with FAT32 file system

#### Setting up the SD Card

- Download harmony MPU bootstrap loader from this [location](firmware/at91bootstrap_sam_9x60_ek_freertos.X/binaries/boot.bin)
- Copy the downloaded boot loader binary( boot.bin) onto the SD card

#### Setting up the board

- SDMMC slot used for bootloading the application is SDMMC0 (J4)
- Connect the USB port J22 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to enable debug com port)
- Connect the USB port J7 on board to the computer using a micro USB cable (to power the board)
- *NOTE - Reset push button is labelled as SW3*

## Running the Application

1. Build the application using its IDE
2. Copy the output binary (named 'harmony.bin') onto the SD Card (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section above for setting up the SD card)
3. Insert the SD card into SDMMC slot on the board (Refer to the 'Setting up hardware' section for the correct SDMMC slot)
4. Reset the board to run the application
5. The LED is turned ON when the value read from the EEPROM matched with the written value

Refer to the following table for LED name:

| Board | LED Name |
| ----- | -------- |
|  [SAM9X60-EK Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/DT100126)  | RGB_LED(Green) |
|||
